---
layout: post
title: Finished work on Tom Graffagnino site
date: 2010-03-07
---

Tom <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_0">Graffagnino's</span> website needed these features:<br />1) Gallery<br />2) Blog<br />3) Attractive and custom layout<br />4) Easy to update<br /><br />A few products came to mind:  Blogger, <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_1">Wordpress</span>, Gallery, <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_2">NextGen</span> Gallery, and <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_3">Squarespace</span>.  I did not have any development experience with these products.  I also didn't want to spend too much time learning something new.<br /><br />I wish I could just grab a copy of Consumer Reports and read a review about this software.  Sadly, the software world has nothing as thorough as Consumer Reports.  (review sites just aren't the same)<br /><br />The next best thing is to spend time creating sites in each one, reading documentation, and reviews.  But who has time for that?<br /><br />I had to go with my gut.  My gut told me that customizing Blogger, <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_4">Wordpress</span>, Gallery, or <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_5">NextGen</span> would have been a pain.  I figured that they have a weird custom programming language that I'd need to learn.  All that HTML, <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_6">CSS</span>, and Javascript wouldn't be useful because I'd need to do it with weird custom tags.  I guessed that I was going to spend time digging through forums, searching google, and banging my on the desk. <br /><br />Granted, I don't actually know this to be a fact.  Like I said, I went with my gut.<br /><br />So why didn't I think <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_7">Squarespace</span> would be the same?  It's not free.  You have to spend money to use it.  And frankly, money motivates the heck out of people.  Money will get people to make a great product.  Free usually just gets a good product.<br /><br />Last night, I decided to create a <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_8">Squarespace</span> account.  I went with the free trial account.  I figured it would be a good use of time to try and make a site.  After just 3 hours I knew this was going to be the one.  On hour 4, I decided to upgrade to a Pro account and buy a domain.  Hour 5 was spent this morning tweaking the site and uploading more pictures.<br /><br />That's really amazing.  In 5 hours I created the entire site with all the features I wanted.  No  compromises.<br /><br />I cannot believe that I could have created a completely custom website in the same time with any other product with my current level of knowledge and experience.<br /><br />I wholeheartedly endorse <span class="blsp-spelling-error" id="SPELLING_ERROR_9">Squarespace</span> (and no, they aren't paying me to say this :)
