---
layout: post
title: Turn of events
date: 2010-10-08
---

<p><strong>UPDATE</strong>: Former co-workers and future co-workers, please don't get offended by this post.  After you read this, you'll know the type of person I don't want to work with.  This may or may not be you.  It's OK if it is you.  I have plenty of friends that I wouldn't want to work with, but I sure do enjoy going out for a drink or having fun with this friend.</p><p>....</p><p>For too long I've worked with people that could barely care about their craft.</p><p>I want to work with people that know <strong>architecture</strong>. They care not only about getting it done, but getting it done <strong>right.</strong> The way a program is <strong>constructed</strong> is just as important as what it offers.</p><p>People like this read developer blogs.  They study programming languages.  They learn on their own.  They believe that computers and technology can solve world problems.  <strong></strong></p><p>I'm starting a new job this week.  Do I believe that this job will have these types of programmers?  I'm going to bet they don't, but only because that is the <strong>default</strong> state of most programmers - most people - sometimes myself.</p><p>I'm looking for someone to motivate me.  I can't achieve greatness on my own - I need a push.</p><p>....</p><p>I've done a little bit of paid work outside of my normal 9 to 5.  I found that very rewarding.  Working for yourself completely embraces the idea of Pay For Performance.  If you are not any good, you will not get the business.  Should I work for myself?  If I dived into self-employment head first, would I get so scared that I'd fail that I'd work really hard to not fail?  Is this the only way for me to get a company going? Do I need to completely remove the security of a full time job?  Perhaps that is the motivation I need.</p>
