---
layout: post
title: Sharepoint User Group
date: 2010-10-08
---

<p>I contacted Microsoft today because I was interested in starting up a sharepoint user group.</p><p>I've never started a User Group, club or organization before.  I rarely join them.  I have attended user group meetings, but I try not to be involved at leadership level.</p><p>So why the hell do I want to start a group? Because <strong>someone </strong>needs to start a group.  I want to attend meetings about programming.  I want to talk to programmers.  I want more programmer friends.  It frustrates me that <strong>no one else</strong> has started such a group.  I just consider myself an average person with average desires.  So why am I doing this work?  Isn't there someone more motivated and passionate than me out there? Guess I just need to roll up my sleeves and do the work.</p><p>....</p><p>My new job is a Sharepoint developer.  I have also done lots of general web development with .NET and Coldfusion.  So what kinda user group should I start? Coldfusion, .NET, Sharepoint?</p><p>If I lived in a big city, I could pick anything and by just shear numbers I could get enough people to attend to make it worthwhile.  Of course in a big city I wouldn't be the one starting the group.</p><p>In a small town like Columbus, I need to get something that will have a broad appeal.  It also has to be something I enjoy.  I did Coldfusion work for 2 years and never liked it. That is out of the question.  Sharepoint is fun but its more IT related and sometimes more of a business thing than anything else.  Maybe just a straight up .NET user group.</p><p> </p>
