---
layout: post
title: Dropbox kept me from loosing my mind
date: 2011-07-15
---

I've been playing D&amp;D with my wife, Jackie, this week. &nbsp;I like keeping a log of the adventures and a map of the places we've been. &nbsp;Jackie reached a milestone and her characters both reached level 2. &nbsp;It was getting late and I was tired, but I wanted to finish up clean for the night. &nbsp;I decided to upgrade her characters, fill in my log, and draw a map on my computer. &nbsp;After leveling up I attempted to print the character sheets. &nbsp;<div><br /></div><div><blockquote><a href="http://theoatmeal.com/comics/printers">If you know me and printers you know that I hate them. &nbsp;What I really mean is that I hate the engineers that design printers - you are terrible at your job - just quit and do something else for a living.</a></blockquote><div><br /></div><div>After a grueling 30 minutes and many curse words, it finally&nbsp;bent&nbsp;to my will and printed the sheets. &nbsp;It went from a fun happy night to a terrible-I-hate-everything night.<div><br /></div><div>With the log done, map made, and sheets printed, I am ready to go to bed. &nbsp;I should have stopped, but I just couldn't leave a good thing alone. &nbsp;I see that I have two different folders on my computer with D&amp;D documents. &nbsp;I decide to merge the old one with the new one. &nbsp;In Windows when you overwrite a folder with another folder it merges the folders. &nbsp;I am a Windows guy by trade so this is what I expect. &nbsp;In OS X it deletes the old folder and put the new one in its place.&nbsp;</div><div><br /></div><div>In other words, It f**ks you.</div><div><br /></div><div><a href="http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/HUMANCENTiPAD">Cartman puts it nicely,</a></div><blockquote>Can you at least take me to a grease monkey so I can at least get lubed up before you f**k me. Or at at least a little courtesy lick. How about a little courtesy lick next time you try to f**k me?</blockquote><div>Yeah, OS X, how about a courtesy lick? &nbsp;I came to expect this from my Printer, but you Mac OS X??? YOU TOO?!</div><div><br /></div><div>Yep, I just lost all my character sheets, maps, and log for our entire adventure - they were replaced by some old D&amp;D files that I really didn't need! &nbsp;This sinking depression came over me and I thought I just might cry. &nbsp;</div><div><br /></div><div>I sat there thinking "there must be a way to get this back." &nbsp;But the Mac recycle bin didn't have anything. &nbsp;I was at a total loss for any solution.</div><div><br /></div><div>I walked away from the computer in a shocked WTF moment - A serious tragedy just&nbsp;occurred&nbsp;(I blame the printer). &nbsp;I had no more anger in me - it was spent on the printer. &nbsp;I was just slack jaw amazed that this happened.</div><div><br /></div><div>If I did one smart thing it was storing all of this in my Dropbox folder. Guess what! &nbsp;Dropbox has a recycle bin. &nbsp;It had already backed up my documents before I could delete them. &nbsp;HECK YEAH! &nbsp;Elation! &nbsp;</div><div><br /></div><div><a href="http://db.tt/8WAxven">Thank you Dropbox. &nbsp;Thank you.</a></div><div><br /></div><div>p.s. It's our 5th anniversary as wife and husband. &nbsp;I love you Jackie!</div></div></div>
