---
layout: post
title: Security in the Bolton Household
date: 2011-06-15
---

<b>What happened....</b><br /><br />My wife got a nasty virus on her netbook several weeks ago. &nbsp;Someone uploaded an infected PDF to an education website. &nbsp;My wife (she's a teacher) downloaded this PDF. &nbsp;With no interaction from her, besides opening it, it immediately installed a fake antivirus program. &nbsp;It then said it found a virus and asked for her credit card to upgrade so that the program could remove the virus. &nbsp;Adobe was set to automatically update, but I guess it either had not fixed this vulnerability or we had not updated yet.<br /><br />She was smart enough to realize this was a scam and&nbsp;immediately&nbsp;got me to help out. &nbsp;I didn't have time to work on it right then. &nbsp;I shut the machine down and removed the battery. &nbsp;Days later I decided to reformat and&nbsp;re-install windows.<br /><br />To compound all this, PSN was hacked a few weeks earlier. &nbsp;I used that same user name and password on many websites - including some banking websites.<br /><br />OK, so I was pissed and feeling very vulnerable. &nbsp;And now I was motivated to fix my shit.<br /><br /><b>This is what I WASN'T doing</b><br /><br /><ol><li>Use long complex passwords</li><li>Use unique passwords for each website/login</li><li>Run as a least&nbsp;privileged&nbsp;user</li><li>Turn on firewalls</li><li>Turn on antivirus</li><li>Use something besides Adobe for PDFs</li></ol><div><b>Now things are a little different.</b></div><div><br /></div><div>I use <a href="http://agilebits.com/products/1Password">1Password </a>+ <a href="https://www.dropbox.com/">Dropbox </a>to create and manage all of my accounts (all 128 of them). &nbsp;Each one has a unique password. &nbsp;Each one is complex - as complex as the system would allow. &nbsp;Some sites enforce bad password policies. &nbsp;I use Dropbox to sync all my passwords across all devices. &nbsp;That's a <a href="http://help.agilebits.com/1Password_Windows/setting-up-Dropbox-sync.html">Window XP machine, Window 7 machine</a>, <a href="http://help.agilebits.com/1Password3/cloud_syncing_with_dropbox.html">iPhone</a>, and <a href="http://help.agilebits.com/1Password3/configure_dropbox_on_mac.html">Macbook Pro</a>.</div><div><br /></div><div>All computers have at least 2 accounts - 1 user and 1 admin. &nbsp;</div><div><br /></div><div>I had firewalls turned on in Windows, but not OS X. &nbsp;I've turned that on now. &nbsp;</div><div><br />I'm using&nbsp;<a href="http://www.foxitsoftware.com/products/reader/">Foxit Reader</a>&nbsp;for PDFs on Windows. &nbsp;I use the built in PDF reader for OS X and iOS.<br /><br /></div><div>And finally, I've done the unthinkable. &nbsp;I vowed to never install antivirus. &nbsp;I always considered it a resource hog. &nbsp;On the recommendation of my security pro friend, I purchased <a href="http://us.norton.com/360/">Norton 360</a> and installed it on all of my Window machines. &nbsp;They sell a <a href="http://us.norton.com/macintosh/antivirus/">copy </a>for OS X but I'm going to hold off on that purchase until Lion comes out.</div><div><br /></div><div><b>How's this working out for me?&nbsp;</b></div><div><br /></div><div>I've been using this setup for 2 maybe 3 weeks now. &nbsp;The password thing freaked me out at first. &nbsp;I honestly don't know any of my passwords. &nbsp;I just have my 1 master password and that's it. &nbsp;In practice, it works out fine. &nbsp;I just copy/paste those passwords into forms no problem. &nbsp;Even works well on iPhone. &nbsp;One caveat here is typing these passwords into a machine like a PS3 or Apple TV. &nbsp;That's a PITA for sure. &nbsp;But it's a one time thing that I'll never have to do again.</div><div><br /></div><div>Running as a least&nbsp;privileged&nbsp;account works fine in Windows 7 and OS X. &nbsp;It's not workable in Windows XP. &nbsp;Too many programs require admin rights to do basic tasks. &nbsp;Programs would lock up or just error out. &nbsp;I ended up going back to using admin accounts in XP.</div><div><br /></div><div>The firewall is not that great on OS X. &nbsp;It doesn't seem to trust iTunes even though I've added it as a trusted program. &nbsp;Oh well, I don't mind clicking Allow for when iTunes downloads content.</div><div><br /></div><div>I've had no problems with Foxit Reader or my Norton 360.</div><div><br /></div><div>All in all, I'm happy with my current setup.</div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div><div><br /></div>
