---
layout: post
title: The Right Place to Look
date: 2013-01-25
---

I've been struggling with a project over the last few days. &nbsp;I am dealing with new technology and a new business domain - a one-two punch that easily confuses me. <br /><br />I put a lot of pride in my smarts - I never want to come off as a dumby, but sometimes you just have to really humble yourself and start asking questions. &nbsp;I got over that issue long ago, its basically something you have to be comfortable with as a programmer. &nbsp;For me, the struggle lately is finding the right person to ask, finding the right book, the right forum, or the right example code. &nbsp;That can be the most difficult thing.<br /><br />Inevitable when I find the right source, I berate myself thinking "duh! why didn't you look here first? It was so obvious!"<br /><br />**********<br /><br />Oh and I started a new job. &nbsp;I am working at Webfilings. &nbsp;An amazing place to work AND they have a nice little location here in my home town of Columbus, GA. &nbsp;My local office has an open work environment, top of the line computers, free food and drinks, ping pong, XBox, beer Fridays, Aeron Chairs... the list goes on and on. &nbsp;I never thought I'd work somewhere like this to be honest. <br /><br /><a href="https://www.webfilings.com/about/be-part-something-amazing">In you want to work here, take a look.</a><br /><br />And if you are a company that needs a&nbsp;financial and regulatory reporting solution,&nbsp;check them out. &nbsp;<a href="http://www.webfilings.com/">They offer an amazing product.</a><br />        
